
1. Sanjeev is an insurance expert who has rich experience in determining premium levels for product, what is his profile like
an actuary
loss adjuster
risk manager
underwriter
Works on statistical data to arrive on mortality , premium table etc

2. The Non Government organizations(NGO) helps the insurance industry immensely in

Promotional activities
Drafting new regulations
Linking buyers and sellers
Linking third party administrators
Question was not answered

NGO spread Awareness as well as In rural on deeper Penetration through Micro Insurance

3. Investment by foreign direct investors in to Insurance co's is restricted to

12%
25%
40%
26%
Question was not answered

On recommendation of Mahlotra Committee , Under Joint venture , the foreign player can not have more than 26% stake

4. Which market does the Micro Insurance Concentrate on ?

People with large families
People with Low Income
Government Employees
people living in Metro cities
Question was not answered

Micro Insurance is for Low Income Group . Product ranges from 5K to 50 K .Premium is as low as Rs 15 and can be collected weekly

5. What facility do the insurer use to cover Risk beyond their Limits ?

Re Insurance
Banca assurance
NGO
RBI
Question was not answered

Reinsurance company is the Insurer for the Insurance Company

6. What is the max level under which micro insurance can be done

5000
25000
50000
1 lac
Question was not answered

Micro Insurance guidelines was issued in 2005 by IRDA . Minimum SA is Rs 5000 & Max is Rs 50,000

7. Who is the customer of a Re insurer

High Networth Individual
Insurance Companies
Licenced Insurance Agents
Non Government Organisation
Question was not answered

Reinsurance company is the Insurer for the Insurance Company

8. Insurance company transfers the insurance which cannot bear by them to

Bancassurance
Reinsurance
TPAs
Actuaries
Question was not answered

A re insurance company is the Insurer for Insurance company

9. A policy holder takes two insurance policy and the premium amount is identical and he gets lesser commission in one of contract the reason is likely to be

one policy has more SA
ONE POLICY has more term
one policy is a single premium
One of the policy has higher Premium
Question was not answered

Agent can receive maximum up to 35% Commission in first year . Maximum commission in ten years horizon cannot be more than 40.%.

10. An agent reveals his commission received from insurance sales to X&Y .Both plans are of same duration . Why is commission of X far higher that that of Y

X has brought other limited premium product
Y has brought a single premium product
X is married
Y is Single
Question was not answered

different products have different commission . Maximum Commission payable in First Year cannot exceed 35%

11. Customer asks the agent to disclose the commission . The agent should

disclose on demand
Not disclose
Should call up the Insurer
Should avoid the topic
Question was not answered

Sec 42 of Insurance act 1938 defines licensing procedure for agents .Agents should disclose their commission to the customer on demand and yet not give any rebate

12. The best way to prove that customer of a ULIP policy is given awareness about the commission paid to the agent is

Ask the insurer to give a policy endorsement letter
From the fact details
From signed copy of benefit illustration
From ticked column of proposal form
Question was not answered

As per IRDA regulations , agents are supposed to disclose their COMMISSION when asked by the customer . However Rebates are prohibited

13. Churning is bad , based on which aspect

Agents earn Lower Commission on churning
Policyholder gets more benefits
Policyholders suffer due to surrender charges and benefits
Insurance companies get good branding
Question was not answered

Repeatedly encouraging clients to switch policies / Investments from one another is called churning

14. What over riding criteria an insurance agent consider while proposing a solution

risk
suitability
Flexibility
Cost
Question was not answered

Agent is an intermediary between Insurer and the Client

15. Sales Target is reduced . Churning will

Increase
Decrease
Will not affect
Partially
Question was not answered

Repeatedly encouraging customers to switch policies or investment from one to another is called Churning

16. Higher persistency to the insurer ensures what ?

More productivity
Higher attrition
Higher Profits
Higher S.A
Question was not answered

Higher Persistency helps Insurer to get Higher revenue thereby increasing profitability

17. Persitency =has increased from 82 % in previous year to 86 % this year . That means

more lapsation
more attrition
less lapsation
No profits
Question was not answered

Higher Persistency helps Insurer to get Higher revenue thereby increasing profitability

18. What is the maximum Time in which The insurer should settle a claim when all documents are submitted

3 days
15 days
30 days
10 days
Question was not answered

According to IRDA Regulation 2002 , a claim under a life insurance policy will have to be paid or be disputed with giving relevant information within 30 days from the date of receipt of all necessary documents & clarifications

19. A missing person is considered to be dead after

5years
8years
12 years
7years
Question was not answered

Sec 107 & 108 of indian evidence act 1872 deals with presumption of death , Waiting period of 7 years is seen in case of person missing

20. The delay in settling claim by any insurance co, as per IRDA norms has to pay....% if the present bank interest rate is 5.2%

6%
9%
7%
8%
Question was not answered

As per IRDA Regulations , when there is a delay by the insurer for settling of a claim , then they need to pay 2% more than the financial years saving account rate of interest

21. A claim was submitted & in how many days company should ask for additional documents if required

15 days
10days
20 days
30 days
Question was not answered

IRDA Guidelines on claim settlement instruct the insurer to complete any additional documents /information collection not in a piece meal basis within 15 days from the time of receiving the claim intimation

22. Vivek takes insurance policy and dies after 8 months . If the claim needs to be excluded basis the exclusion cause what could be the cause

suicide
murder
Death was due to Accident
Body not found
Question was not answered

Suicide clause exclude claim settlements if it happens within One year of the policy commencement

23. An advisor while explaining the policy and to sell he accepts to give a part of his Agents commission, what is th limits

10%
20%
He cannot offer any commission
He can offer up to 50%
Question was not answered

Sec 41 (1) of insurance act 1938 prohibits all agents to give rebates

24. Consumer Forum at district level will hear complaints up to

20L
40L
1Cr
10L
Question was not answered

District Court upto 20 L

25. How much is the rebate allowed by IRDA to client

Nil
5%
10%
35%
Question was not answered

Sec40(1) of Insurance act 1938 prohibits agents from giving rebates

26. The controller of insurance in india is

IRDA
RBI
SEBI
Insurance ombusdmen
Question was not answered

IRDA 1999 , was passed in parliament establishing it as a corporate Body

27. A insurer advertises through daily news paper . What type of marketing is

cross selling
direct selling
Solicitation of Policy
Brand building
Question was not answered

IRDA regulations on advertisements include all printed and published materials from Insurer as well as Agents

28. Investment by NRI(Non Resident Indian) will be

No risk
Low risk
Medium risk
High risk
Question was not answered

29. MWP- If the policy is endorsed under MWP - then the beneficiaries are wife and ?

parents
ex wife
children
mother
Question was not answered

Beneficiaries under MWPA can be Wife , Children , Wife & Children , Adopted Child

30. Mr.Sunil is doing premium calculation for his company, as per which authority is his profession related to

Council of Actuaries
Insurance council of India
Insurance institiute of India
IRDA
Question was not answered

IAI (Institute of actuaries in India ). Actuary is an expert who applies statistical & mathematical methods to asses risk and calculate premium tables

31. Basic qualifications of agent

sound mind & graduate
sound mind & good income level
Age and income level
His contacts in the market to solicit Insurance
Question was not answered

For License , a person should be Major , Of sound mind , graduate , no criminal records ,attended training , passed III exam

32. Which Institution was Constituted by Insurance Act 1938

Insurance Institute of India
Life Insurance Council
Insurance Broker Association
General Insurance Council
Question was not answered

Life Insurance council was constituted under Sec 64 of Insurance ACT 1938. Its the face of Life Insurance Industry

33. What is the role of National Insurance Academy?

To regulate
To advise Government
To undertake training activities
To Advertise globally on Indian Insurance
Question was not answered

NAI , Pune , was set up by Govt in 1980 with support from LI Council , GI council & 4 psu GI. Main Objective is to design , implement & operate on Insurance Training

34. According to IRDA act 1999, central governments involve in insurance industry over

Policy matters
complex technical issues
Promotional activities
Licensing of Insurance companies
Question was not answered

Power of Govt to supersede IRDA is unable to discharge its Function or duties

35. Complaint council bodies other than IRDA grievance readdress forum & COPA

Ombudsman
Insurance Institute of India
Insurance Association
FERA
Question was not answered

Integrated Grievance management system (IGMS) also makes the complaints to be regsitered through E mail – complaints@irda.gov.in or Toll free number 155255

36. What are the ways by which a policy holder can make complaints

email
Toll free No.
Newpaper
Email or Toll free Number
Question was not answered

Integrated Grievance management system (IGMS) also makes the complaints to be regsitered through E mail – complaints@irda.gov.in or Toll free number 155255

37. What are the ways in which IRDA can be contacted . One is thru toll free number and other is

email
Insurance ombudsmen
visiting regional office
Through Agents
Question was not answered

Toll Free Number :155255 & Email

38. A policy holder submits cancellation of his term insurance policy , the insurer accepts the form and fails to give the benefit and the policy holder writes to IRDA post which the settlement should be within

10 days
15 days
20 days
30 days
Question was not answered

Complaints related to cancellation of Policy & premium paid in excess for additional cover , Response TAT has to be within 10 Days from the date of complaint

39. What is the maximum level of complaint that can be considered and taken action by ombudsmen

20 lac
25 lac
30 lac
50 lac
Question was not answered

Ombudsman role is to resolve complaints related to claims , disputes with regard to premium / policy, non issue policy documents , all in a cost effective manner

40. What is the period of award passed to the customer decided by ombudsman?

2months
3 months
5 months
6 months
Question was not answered

Ombudsman role is to resolve complaints related to claims , disputes with regard to premium / policy, non issue policy documents , all in a cost effective manner

41. An Award is passed by Ombudsman .In how many days it should be honored by Insurance Co

15 days
30 days
60 days
90 days
Question was not answered

The award is binding on the insurer if acceptable by the Claimant , Ombudsman will have to give the award within 3 months from the receipt of the complain

42. Karthik written to his insurer about non settlement of a maturity calim,as per regulations,the insurer has to reply to this within how many working days

3
5
7
10
Question was not answered

Under Protection of policyholders Regulation of IRDA , the insurer has to respond back within 10 days for any written communication by thepolicyholder

43. Raju is a certified license holder under what circumstances he needs to hold his certified license with him that is issued by irda

under all circumstances
when he sells term insurance
when he represents himself as another insurer
when he sells pension policies
Question was not answered

Under IRDA regulations , an agent should carry is license all the time and on demand , should show it to the customers

44. A policy has been rejected by the company under direct intimation to the customer and copy to the Agent, what is the next action of the Agent

He has to inform the customer that the co has broken relationship with the customer
He plans to change the plan
He has to explain the reasons for rejection to the customer
He takes up with the higher authorities
Question was not answered

The role & responsibility of the agent is important to have a good relation with the customers

45. Lung Cancer and Smoking .

lung cancer is peril and smoking is moral hazard
smoking is peril and lung cancer is hazard
Death is certain
Is occupational hazard
Question was not answered

Peril refers to a specific event which might cause a Loss /Damage .A hazard is a condition that may Increase the chance of perils to happen

46. The type of risk that can be insured against is

Speculative Risk
Pure Risk
Pure & Speculative risk
Non Financial Risk
Question was not answered

The types of risk that could be insured against are , financial risk , pure Risk & Particular risk

47. Harish takes a life insurance policy for Ramesh. Which of the following statement best describes the principle of Insurable Interest.

Ramesh declares all his liabilities
Ramesh is elder than Harish
Ramesh owes money form Harish
Harish suffers financial loss incase of death of Ramesh
Question was not answered

Creditor has Insurable Interest on the Life of Debtor to the extend of the MONEY lent to the debtor

48. What is the min age to enter into the contract of insurance

16
18
20
21
Question was not answered

Person entering contract should be competent enough . A person is competent when he is a Major ( above 18 years ) , sound mind ,not disqualified

49. In a whole life plan - The policyholider's responsibility to give disclosure

at the beginning of the contract
through out the contract
Revival stage
beginning of renewal
Question was not answered

The proposer knows all the material facts about himself and has to disclose all information voluntarily at the time of completing the proposal form and submitting the documents

50. Types of assignment

Absolute
Term assignment
Conditional
Absolute & Conditional
Sec 38 of Insurance Act 1938 Defines Assignment and its types
